# EnergyConsumptionAnalysis
This project is an anlysis of the Energy Consumption for the various clients of XYZ Company. The Analytics part was done on Tableau, the images of which are shared ine the folder called Tableau_images, whereas the data warehousing and modelling part of the project was performed using SQL Server, the code of the various modelling processes is uploaded aswell. 

The aim of this project was to inform the client of their Energy usage patterns and draw insights from the data to reduce energy costs for the respective clients. Through the daily reports which were sent everyday, they were able to idetify their energy usage of the previous day and investigate any anomalous energy spikes. Other than that I also modeled Load shedding by identify missing energy values and then storing them in a seperate table, all of which was done on SQL. The ETL process involved importing data from raw database to working database through procedures, applying trnasformation layers to structure data in the form needed and then breaking down the database into a number of facts and dimensions tables. These datasets were then exported to Tableau and then after performing the necessary visualizations to draw insights, they were uploaded on Tableau online and sent to client regularly by scheduling.

For the analytics part on Tableau, the dashboards include breakdown of Energy Consumption by Weekdays and Weekends, Days, Hours and Peak and Off Peak hours, all of which gave client valuable information of their energy usage and identify trends. There is also a sheet of the Load shedding breakdown by the respective SiteIDs. 

This project gave me an in depth understanding of the ETL, Data Warehousing, Modelling and Analytics, all of which are core attributes of a Data Analysis skillset. I have uploaded the images of the visualizations performed on Tableau as well as the modelling process performed on SQL Server. I am also attaching the link to my Tableau public profile, where the visualizations uploaded are interactive. 

https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/waleed.khan8552
